The role of the RLR system in controlling yellow fever virus (YFV) has yet to be examined. However, both RIG-I and MDA5 expression was upregulated in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) recovered from individuals vaccinated with YF-17D [15] , suggesting a possible role for both of these PRRs in responding to YFV in vivo. Combined, these studies indicate that RIG-I is involved in sensing all flavivirus infections; however, MDA5's role is virus-dependent. TLR3 and TLR7 have also been implicated in WNV infections [24] [25] [26] , though the role of these TLRs in WNV-mediated pathogenesis remains controversial. Wang et al. observed that WNV virulence was attenuated in TLR3 \u2212/\u2212 mice [24] , despite increased viremia. The authors proposed that the enhanced virulence in wild type mice was due to an increase in the permeability of the blood-brain barrier caused by induction of an inflammatory response by TLR3. Therefore, stimulation of the TLR3 pathway by WNV in vivo leads to increased pathogenesis rather than protection. In contrast, a recent study re-examining the pathogenesis of WNV in TLR3-deficient mice reported an increase in the susceptibility to WNV in these mice [25] . Accumulating evidence suggests that IFN-\u03b1/\u03b2 has the potential to play an important role in inhibiting flavivirus replication. Pretreatment of human hepatoma cells with IFN-\u03b1/\u03b2 results in inhibition of DENV replication. This inhibition is retained even when DENV RNA is transfected directly into cells, indicating that IFN-\u03b1/\u03b2 affects post-entry steps of viral replication [38] . Likewise, WNV has been shown to be sensitive to antiviral effects of IFN-\u03b1/\u03b2 in vitro [39] [40] [41] [42] [43] . Pretreatment of human and mouse cells with IFN-\u03b1/\u03b2 inhibited WNV replication, though the magnitude of the sensitivity of WNV to IFN-\u03b1/\u03b2 was cell line and strain-dependent [39, 40, 42]. The importance of the IFN-\u03b1\u2044\u03b2 pathway in controlling flavivirus infection has also been demonstrated in vivo. Ablation of the IFN-\u03b1/\u03b2 receptor or the JAK/STAT signaling pathway increased susceptibility to DENV, WNV and JEV infection [40, [43] [44] [45] [46] [47] . While IFN pretreatment protected animals against lethal challenges with WNV and St. Louis encephalitis virus [48] . Induction of IFN-\u03b1\u2044\u03b2 has also been detected in mice infected with WNV [25, 34, 43, 52] . Additionally, high levels of IFN-\u03b1/\u03b2 are present for long periods of time in pediatric dengue patients after defervescence; and differential global gene expression profiling has shown that key mediators of the IFN-dependent antiviral response are upregulated in patients [49, [53] [54] [55] . However, WNV and DENV are still capable of establishing productive infections despite the host's ability to stimulate a robust IFN-\u03b1/\u03b2 response to these viruses. Recent evidence suggests that severe disease associated with DENV and WNV infections correlates with their ability to counteract the IFN-\u03b1/\u03b2 response [40] . The highest amounts of IFN-\u03b1/\u03b2 detected in acutely ill dengue patients occur very early in infection, with IFN-\u03b1/\u03b2 levels decreasing with disease progression [56] . Furthermore, DENV infection has been demonstrated to stimulate maturation of infected DCs and uninfected bystander cells, which leads to a robust induction of IFN-\u03b1/\u03b2, TNF\u03b1 and significant pro-inflammatory cytokines [57, 58] . However, the activation of infected DCs was blunted compared to uninfected cells. These findings suggest that DENV blocks or circumvents the IFN-\u03b1/\u03b2 response. Thus, allowing the virus to propagate in the presence of IFN-\u03b1/\u03b2 levels that would otherwise be a sufficient to impair its replication. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Virus binding was also visualized using scanning electron microscopy. Deparaffinized sections were incubated with LPAI H5N2 virus or human H1N1 virus for 2 h as described above. Subsequently the sections were washed with distilled water and fixed using increasing ethanol concentrations (50%, 70%, 90% and 100%). The sections were then dried by a critical point dryer (Leica EM CPD300). Gold was coated over the dried sections by applying sputter coating for 10 seconds (Cressington, 108 auto sputter coater) and SEM images were taken by a field emission SEM (FE-SEM, Merlin Zeiss) under 5 eV. Image processing and pseudo coloring of virus particles bound to tissues was performed using Adobe Photoshop CC. License, which permits use, sharing, adaptation, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons license, and indicate if changes were made. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article's Creative Commons license, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article's Creative Commons license and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this license, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/. HAdV-B14p was first isolated from The Netherlands and linked to a respiratory tract disease outbreak in military recruits between April and May, 1955[4] . This particular virus was associated with sporadic cases of acute respiratory disease (ARD) in Europe and Asia through the 1960s [4, 5] and then was not reported for a long period. In the approximately 50-year interval from the original identification to the recent outbreaks, reports of respiratory disease associated with HAdV-B14p were rare and limited to small numbers of patients [6] . Recently, from 2005 through 2009, HAdV14p1 has apparently re-emerged and has been associated with several large ARD outbreaks across the USA, associated with nine military and twenty-four civilian communities in contrast to the past, as well as in Europe (Ireland) [6] [7] [8] . Several HAdV-B14like infections have also been recently reported in China, beginning from 2010 [9, 10] . The applications of genomics and bioinformatics to the adenoviral genomes provide high resolution insights into their epidemiology and evolution, specifically revealing the molecular basis for the genesis of several emergent and re-emergent adenovirus pathogens [2, [11] [12] [13] [14] [15] [16] [17] [18] [19] [20] . This report presents the isolation and identification of a type 14 adenovirus, isolated from a six-month-old baby diagnosed with bronchial pneumonia. It was confirmed as HAdV-B14p1 by the analysis of its genome and, in particular, the hexon, fiber, and E1A genes. The genome was sequenced, analyzed, and compared with other reference adenovirus genome sequences archived in GenBank. This analysis shows that the Beijing HAdV14p1 has a close phylogenetic relationship with HAdV-B14p, isolated in 1955 from The Netherlands. Its sequence is remarkably conserved, given the time and geographic distances. It is also nearly identical to a HAdV-B14p1 strain (303600) recently characterized from an outbreak in the USA (2006) . Given the recent outbreaks of this particular virus in the USA, Europe and China, these genome data and this report provide a reference for recognizing any future HAdV-B14 outbreak in China and serves as a foundation for the development of adenovirus vaccines and surveillance protocols in high-risk areas. Further, these observations will aid the continuing research and development of adenovirus-based vectors. The genome was assembled using Sequencher (v4.0.5; Gene Codes, Inc.; Ann Arbor, MI). For genome sequence annotation, the assembled genome was partitioned into 1-kb non-overlapping segments, similar to the method of Lauer et al, and each segment was systematically queried against the GenBank non-redundant sequences database using their BLASTX program. DNA sequence alignments were revealed using the BioEdit sequence alignment editor software (v5.0.9; T. Hall, North Carolina State University) and an online Gene-wise program (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/Wise2/ advanced.html). All sequences were submitted for BLAST analysis (http://blast.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Blast.cgi/) to identify their closely related counterparts. As a quality control check, the annotated coding sequences corresponded to their counterparts from other HAdV genomes. Annotation of the splice positions and correlation with functional properties were completed by using an on-line splice prediction software (http://www.fruitfly.org/seq_tools/ splice. html) and the GENSCAN software (http://genes.mit. edu/GENSCAN.html). In China, adenovirus is not recognized presently as a statutory infectious disease agent; therefore, reports of these viruses have not been incorporated into the National Infectious Disease Agent Monitoring System. Recently, adenovirus-linked respiratory infections are increasingly being reported in China, with multiple HAdV types identified as causative agents: HAdV-C1, -C2, -E4, -C6, -B3, -B7, -B11, -B14, and -B55 [9, 14, [22] [23] [24] [25] . Presumably the ''HAdV-B11'' is a mischaracterization due to an incomplete assessment of the genome, that is, the fiber gene that may identify it as a HAdV-B55 virus was not assessed [22] . It should be noted that 'true' adenovirus type 11 viruses are renal tract pathogens, i.e., HAdV-B11p, -B11b, and -B11c. Whether this increase in adenovirus-linked respiratory diseases is due to better clinical detection and reporting or due to social events, e.g., global travel and interactions, is a matter of great concern to the public health of China. Improved detection, identification, and high resolution analysis of the genomes of these highly contagious emergent and re-emergent pathogens will enable a better understanding of this virus, and will provide a basis for enacting measures to prevent or limit its effect on the population. Here we report the details of the analysis of a HAdV-B14p1 genome recovered from a respiratory infection in a six-month-old baby from Beijing. It is the first bioinformatics report of a HAdV-B14 virus in China. This pathogenic agent was confirmed using virus isolation and with both molecular detection and serology. To determine the source of these infections and to assess if there is nosocomial transmission, archived samples were examined under the auspices of an annual surveillance program for respiratory tract diseases at the Beijing Children's Hospital. The data set was collected from in-house patients during 2010. This retrospective study identified seven samples positive for HAdV (two were HAdV-C2; one was HAdV-C5; two were HAdV-B3; one was HAdV-B7; and one was HAdV-B14p1, described here). In addition, 20 samples were positive for RSV; five for parainfluenza viruses (four were type 3 and one was type 1); and eight were positive for rhinovirus. These included co-infections noted by PCR assays (unpublished data). The six-month-old infant presented in this report showed no co-infection with other respiratory viruses, including other types of adenovirus; therefore, there is no evidence of nosocomial transmission of this reemergent adenovirus type 14. Both epidemiological and virus surveillance of this previously unknown respiratory disease pathogen should be enhanced to provide more data for further understanding of its impact on the population, especially as a foundation for strategies to limit their impact on the population. GenBank deposition. The genome and gene nucleotide sequences, along with the annotations of ''Human adenovirus B human/CHN/BJ430/2010/14[P14H14F14]'', in the naming format preferred by the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) [29] were deposited in GenBank. These are available under the following accession numbers: JN032132 (genome); JF420883 (hexon); JF420882 (fiber); and JF438997 (E1A). Figure 2 . Phylogenetic analysis. E1A, fiber and hexon genes, as well as whole genome sequences of HAdV, are analyzed with respect to their phylogenetic relationships. Genes from the three recent HAdV-B14p1 strains are closely related to each other and to the prototype HAdV-B14p genome. It is remarkable that HAdV-B14p1 has a high level of sequence similarity to the prototype genome after approximately 50 years. Phylogenetic analysis was performed using the software MEGA v4.0 (Molecular Genetic Analysis Software; http://www.megasoftware.net), specifically applying a maximum-composite-likelihood method that generated neighbor-joining and bootstrapped trees of phylogeny with 1,000 replicates; all other parameters were set by default. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0060345.g002. To assess the efficacy of the our MVA-ZIKV vaccine candidates, BALB/c mice at four-weeks post-immunisation (n = 5) were intravenously challenged with ZIKV (strain Brazil ZKV2015; ZIKV-BR), as previously described [17] . Vaccine efficacy was measured as partial or complete reduction of viremia, by retro-transcriptase (RT)-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR); at 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, and 7-days post ZIKV challenge ( Figure 3 ). The na\u00efve control group challenged with ZIKV displayed the expected viraemia kinetics, comprising a viral load peak at day 3 and clearance of viraemia by day 7 (Figure 3a , na\u00efve panel). Mice vaccinated with a single dose of MVA-ZIKV vaccines conferred partial protection against ZIKV challenge. For the MVA prME vaccinated group, all mice reduced viral loads in the blood: reduced viral load peak was detected in three out of five mice, and the other two mice presented a viral load peak at day 2, instead of day 3. After the viral peak, all mice dropped viral loads by day 4 and cleared the virus by day 7. Mice receiving the MVA prME \u2206TM vaccine reflected lower viraemia in three out of five mice, whereas two mice showed viraemia similar to that of the control na\u00efve group. A similar trend was observed in the MVA vaccine expressing only E (MVA-Env). Interestingly, the MVA vaccine expressing E without the TM domain (MVA Env \u2206TM), improved protective efficacy, in comparison to the rest of the vaccinated groups. Besides that, the protection efficacy of MVA Env \u2206TM was better than the rest of the MVA-ZIKV vaccines, by substantially reducing the ZIKV loads in blood, such protection did not reach 100% efficacy and we did not detect statistical significance between the MVA-ZIKV vaccinated groups when analysing three-day post challenge viral loads. (Figure 3c ). Taken together, we conclude that a single dose and non-adjuvanted vaccination with the MVA-ZIKV vaccines elicited humoral immunogenicity, but these vaccines could not afford sterile protection in BALB/c mice challenged with ZIKV. We have previously demonstrated that a non-replicative adenoviral-vectored vaccine expressing ZIKV antigens induces high levels of immunity and protective efficacy in a ZIKV mice challenge model against a ZIKV-BR strain, all upon an adjuvanted, single adenoviral-based vaccine [17] . Here, we explored the suitability of different viral-vectored platforms other than adenoviral-vectored vaccines; the modified vaccinia Ankara (MVA) virus was engineered to express the same antigens that were previously expressed in adenoviral-vectored vaccines. The rationale behind constructing MVA vectored-ZIKV vaccines relies in the proven safety in clinical trials and its high immunogenicity demonstrated in various vaccine developments. Furthermore, P\u00e9rez et al. constructed an MVA-ZIKV vaccine expressing the prME gene, which is capable of expressing Virus-Like Particles (VLPs) and inducing partial protection in mice after a ZIKV challenge, upon a homologous prime-boost approach [21] . Of particular interest, an MVA vaccine expressing the non-structural protein 1 (NS1) of ZIKV has been demonstrated to be 100% effective in both a single-or two-dose vaccination [22] . Here, we developed four MVA-ZIKV vaccines expressing the envelope gene, with or without its transmembrane domain, both in the presence and absence of the prM antigens. In our hands, the use of MVA was not as efficient as the ChAdOx1 counter-parts [17] . MVA-ZIKV vaccine candidates induced modest levels of anti-ZIKV E antibodies after a single vaccination approach and they failed to confer sterile protection. This observation agrees with Perez et al., in which a single immunisation of MVA-ZIKV induced a 2.5 log reduction in viraemia, whereas a two-dose immunisation further decreased the viral load but no sterile protection was achieved [21] . These data highlight the following considerations. The sub-optimal protection observed in our study might improve if a booster vaccine is provided. If the elicitation of anti-ZIKV antibodies is key to confer 100% sterile protection, then there is a need to improve the vaccine dose and its delivery, taking into consideration the intervals of vaccination to mount and maintain a long-lasting response against ZIKV. Because our aim was to develop a protective vaccine, given in a single administration, we conclude that the MVA-ZIKV vaccines did not ensure full protective efficacy. However, it would be of interest to assess a two-dose regimen, particularly for the MVA Env \u2206TM, the vaccine that performed the best at controlling viraemia. Furthermore, it would be interesting to test a combinatorial prime-boost strategy between the MVA-ZIKV vaccines (i.e., a prime with MVA-prME followed by a booster with MVA Env \u2206TM), with the objective to assess the best combination that could improve the results observed by us and others. In this study, we used a BALB/c mouse strain that had no lethal outcome upon ZIKV infection. Hence, we measured vaccine efficacy by means of partial or complete reduction of viraemia by RT-qPCR. However, further studies, such as the use of a highly susceptible ZIKV challenge model in A129, mice would be helpful to explore the ZIKV presence in key organs, such as the brain, spleen, and reproductive tract. Given the level of efficacy of MVA-ZIKV vaccines in preventing viraemia, it is expected that ZIKV viral loads may be found in those organs. Lastly, MVA vaccines have been shown to be remarkably efficient when given as a heterologous boost [23] . Therefore, a vaccination given in a prime-boost regimen (ChAdOx1/MVA) could be considered to increase the levels of neutralising antibodies against ZIKV, although a ChAdOx1 prME \u2206TM vaccine has been shown to elicit functional and long-lasting antibodies up to 9 months and 13 months after a single immunisation in inbred and outbred mice, respectively [17] . Various ZIKV vaccine platforms based on the ZIKV envelope have been reported, which consist of DNA, mRNA, VLPs or adenoviral vectors, MVAs, and using different routes of administrations. Therefore, levels of immunogenicity, ZIKV neutralisation, or in vivo efficacy outcomes are still a good standard to assess such vaccine developments. Our results provide valuable information towards the development of an efficacious vaccine development that could prevent future ZIKV outbreaks. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA)-recombinant ZIKV Envelope protein was used to measure anti-ZIKV envelope antibody concentrations in vaccinated mice by ELISA as previously described [19] . Briefly, Nunc Maxisorp Immuno ELISA plates were coated with Zika virus envelope antigen (Env-CD4) diluted in PBS to a final concentration of 2 \u00b5g/mL and left at room temperature (RT )overnight. Plates were washed six times with PBS/0.05% Tween (PBS/T) and blocked with 300 \u00b5L with PierceTM protein-free (PBS) blocking buffer (Thermo Fisher Scientific, Waltham, MA, USA) for 2 h at RT. Mice sera were obtained 4 weeks or 12 weeks after single immunisation with MVA-ZIKV vaccine. Mice sera reactive to ZIKV E was serially diluted three-fold down in PBS/T with 50 \u00b5L per well as final volume and incubated for 2 h at RT. Following washing six times with PBS/T, bound antibodies were detected following a 1 h incubation with 50 \u00b5L of alkaline phosphatase-conjugated antibodies specific for whole mouse IgG (A3562-5ML, Sigma Aldrich, St. Louis, MO, USA). Following a further six washes with PBST, development was achieved using 100 \u00b5L of 4-nitrophenylphosphate diluted in diethanolamine buffer and the absorbance values at OD405 were measured and analysed using a CLARIOstar instrument (BMG Labtech, Aylesbury, GB). Serum antibody endpoint titres were defined by the sera dilution reaching a greater value than the average OD405 value of the control na\u00efve sera plus three standard deviations. We would like to thank the Jenner Institute's Vector Core Facility for producing and supplying the recombinant MVA viral vectors. Reticuloendotheliosis virus (REV), a member of the Gammaretrovirus genus in the Retroviridae family, causes an immunosuppressive, oncogenic and runting-stunting syndrome in multiple avian hosts. To better understand the host interactions at the transcriptional level, microarray data analysis was performed in chicken embryo fibroblast cells at 1, 3, 5, and 7 days after infection with REV. This study identified 1,785 differentially expressed genes that were classified into several functional groups including signal transduction, immune response, biological adhesion and endocytosis. Significant differences were mainly observed in the expression of genes involved in the immune response, especially during the later post-infection time points. These results revealed that differentially expressed genes IL6, STAT1, MyD88, TLRs, NF-\u03baB, IRF-7, and ISGs play important roles in the pathogenicity of REV infection. Our study is the first to use microarray analysis to investigate REV, and these findings provide insights into the underlying mechanisms of the host antiviral response and the molecular basis of viral pathogenesis. The induction of the antiviral innate immune response depends on the recognition of pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) of viral components by pattern recognition receptors. Members of the Toll-like receptor (TLR) family have emerged as key sensors that recognise viral components such as nucleic acids [28, 29] . In this study, the transcriptional level of TLR-3 molecules was significantly increased, whereas the transcriptional level of TLR-2 and TLR-4 was decreased after REV infection. TLR-3 is known to play a key role in the host response to virus infection by detecting virus-derived dsRNA in intracellular vesicles [30] , whereas TLR-2 and TLR-4 recognise viral structural proteins on the plasma membrane [31] . Our results suggested that the expression of TLR-2 and TLR-4 might be inhibited, causing a diminished immune response to REV infection. In birds, recognition triggers the downstream signal transduction to activate NF-kappaB or IRF-3/7 and finally induces interferon and inflammatory cytokine production [32] . Thus, the up-regulation of STAT-1 could be due to increases in IRF-7-mediated signalling. In this study, differential expression of STAT-1 was also associated with higher cytokine-mediated inflammatory responses [33] . The up-regulation of NF-kappaB observed in response to REV infection may provide a necessary signal required for enhanced virus entry and synthesis of viral proteins inside the cells [34, 35] . All simulated epidemics start with 1 infectious individual in each of the six age groups. We use two estimates of R 0 . The first of these estimates is based on the average number of offspring from the people who were infected as 100th up to 1000th. We ignore the first 100 infecteds to ignore the effect of the initial stages of the epidemic, when the proportions of infecteds are still far from equilibrium. This procedure leads to a very good estimate of R 0 if the spread of the disease is observed completely. The second estimate is based on\u03b1, an estimate of the epidemic growth rate \u03b1, and neglects the multitype setting by assuming homogeneous mixing. We assume that we know \u03b3 and \u03b4 exactly and the estimate for R 0 is given by (1 +\u03b1/\u03b4)(1 +\u03b1/\u00b5). The estimate\u03b1 is obtained from the development of the number of infectious people over time between the time the 100th individual becomes infectious and the time the 1000th individual becomes infectious, by using least square estimation of the natural logarithm of the number of infecteds against time. More specifically, if t 100 , t 101 , . . . , t 1000 denote the times that these individuals become infected then\u03b1 is obtained by fitting a straight line to the points (log(i), t i ), i = 100, 101, . . . , 1000 using linear regression, s\u00f4. Our simulations of Markov SEIR epidemics on all the networks considered are per-formed in R, using the igraph package [16] . An epidemic starts with 10 uniformly chosen individuals which are at the start of their infectious period at time 0. We estimate the epidemic growth rate \u03b1 based on the time between the total number of individuals which are infectious or recovered/deceased (the individuals that have shown symptoms) increases from 200 to 400. We exclude all simulations in which the total number of affected individuals stays below 400. The estimate of R 0 based on the real infection tree is obtained by looking at the epidemic from a generation perspective: All individuals infected by the initially infectious individuals are in generation 1, individuals infected by generation 1 infectives are in generation 2 etc. [10] . We consider as a reference generation the first generation in which there are 75 individuals (say generation k) and we divide the number of individuals in generation 2 up to k + 1 by the number of individuals in generation 1 up to k. We exclude the initial individuals from the estimation of R 0 , because those individuals are chosen uniformly at random and therefore independently of the population structure. By trial and error investigation we tune the infection parameter \u03bb such that the estimate of R 0 using the infection process is close to 2. Using this \u03bb we run 1000 simulations. A typical graph of how the number of observed individuals (i.e. infectious + removed) is given in Figure S2 (a). In part (b) we show the same graph but now we subtract 0.05 times the time to show that the growth of the number of individuals is indeed close to exponential over a large time. Health workers (HWs) run an increased risk of infection. The standardised data set of an accident insurer was used to analyse the time trends of infection-related claims and confirmed occupational diseases (ODs) in HWs. The numbers of claims and confirmed claims for different infections were analysed for the years 1996 to 2017. The rate of claims and confirmed ODs were calculated per 100,000 full-time workers. The number of claims was relatively stable over time. However, the rate per 100,000 full-time workers decreased from 25.2 to 15.4. The decrease was most pronounced for hepatitis B and hepatitis C infections, which were the most frequent infections for which claims were made at the start of the period. In 2017, tuberculosis (TB)-related claims were more frequent than those related to blood-borne virus infections. However, the growing number of TB claims does not reflect an increased infection risk, but rather improved methods for the diagnosis of latent TB infection (LTBI). Measures to prevent blood-borne virus infections in HWs were successful in the last 22 years, but attention should be paid to newly emerging infections. Health workers (HWs) run an increased risk of contracting infectious diseases. This increased risk is well documented for a variety of old infections such as tuberculosis [1-3], blood-borne virus infections such as hepatitis C [4] , and influenza [5] . However, it also exists for new infections such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrom (SARS) [6] [7] [8] [9] , the H1N1-pandemic in 2009 [10, 11] , and multidrug resistant bacteria like Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus Aureus (MRSA) [12] . For the USA researchers estimated the excess death rate due to infections in HWs as 9-29 per one million HWs [13] . Therefore, efforts are made to protect HWs against infections [14] . The Needlestick Safety and Prevention Act (NSPA) enacted in the USA in 2000 was a landmark in protecting HWs from blood-borne virus infections. The NSPA mandates that employers select safer needle devices and train employees on the proper use of all engineering and work practice controls [15] . The American example was followed by European Union regulations encouraging the use of safe instruments in healthcare that were soon implemented in Germany [16, 17] . Health workers are consulted on infection prevention measures and examined for infectious diseases on a regular basis. If a vaccination for a particular infection such as hepatitis B exists and if HWs are at risk of this infection, vaccination is offered at the employer's expense and the occupational health physician is responsible for recommending and performing the vaccination [18] . Depending on the risk assessment, the employer has to provide personal protective equipment (PPE). Consideration of different approaches for the protection of HWs gives rise to the question of how well these regulations and obligations protect HWs against infections at the workplace. One possible way to answer this question is by analysing the time trends of occupational diseases (ODs) caused by infections in HWs [19] . In Germany, as in many other countries, infection in a HW can be recognised as an OD and be compensated accordingly. For example, from 1996 to 2013 a total of 1121 hepatitis C infections in HWs were recognised as ODs in Germany and a total of EUR 52 million was paid to compensate for the loss of ability to work. A further EUR 36 million was paid for medical treatment of these HWs between 2000 and 2014 [20] . All types of ODs considered, the incidence of infections in German HWs seems to have declined in the last 22 years. The time trend was quite different for blood-borne virus infections than for TB. While an increase was observed for TB, the decrease in HBV and HCV infections explains the overall decrease in ODs over time. Advances in HW vaccinations against HBV infection are the most likely explanation for the decrease of HBV infection in HWs [21] . As vaccination is not mandatory, different steps were taken to improve the vaccination rate in HWs. There is provision for a mandatory consultation with occupational physicians at least every third year for HWs at risk [18] . After a needle stick injury (NSI), vaccination status is checked and vaccination is started if needed. In addition, a vaccination campaign was mounted by BGW in 2002. As well as sponsoring vaccination and thereby covering some of the cost for the employer, BGW carried out an information campaign focusing on the responsibility of employers and employees for preventing nosocomial transmission. This campaign was not evaluated, but it is reasonable to assume that it helped to increase awareness and therefore improve the vaccination rate among HWs. Two recent surveys found HBV vaccination rates of 70% in nurses [22] and 94% in dentists [23] . Therefore, a high vaccination rate in HWs in Germany can be assumed, although no systematic analysis exists. Germany is a low incidence country for HBV infections. In 2001, a total of 3876 new HBV infections were registered for the general population. This number decreased to 1684 in 2012. Thereafter the number of registered HBV infections increased again to 3622 cases [24] . The decline of HBV infection in HWs can therefore only partly be explained by the epidemiologic situation in the general population. Identification of potential C-terminal metabolites of [Pyr 1 ]apelin-13. In order to identify potential metabolites of [Pyr 1 ]apelin-13 generated during the 120 minutes infusion period, samples were re-analysed using a high resolution mass spectrometer. Full scan LC-MS data were interrogated for potential [Pyr 1 ]apelin-13 derived metabolites by comparing extracted ion chromatograms for each analyte in the 0 and 120 minute samples in the Qualbrowser software package (Thermofisher). Peptides that were identified in the 120 minute samples were mainly generated by the loss of C-terminal amino acids (Fig. 3A) . Their relative abundance in the samples are displayed in Fig. 3B . Notably, the most abundant fragments were [Pyr 1 ]apelin-13 (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (known to be biologically active 24 ), [Pyr 1 ]apelin-13 (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) and [Pyr 1 ]apelin-13 (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) . Other metabolites identified, although at lower levels (<10% of parent [Pyr 1 ]apelin-13) included [Pyr 1 ]apelin-13 (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) , [Pyr 1 ]apelin-13 (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) and [Pyr 1 ]apelin-13 (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) that are likely to be biologically inactive. The chromatographic spectra corresponding to each of these metabolites are shown in Fig. 4A -G. In addition to [Pyr 1 ]apelin-13 (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) , the most abundant metabolite identified, [Pyr 1 ] apelin-13 (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (Fig. 5) and [Pyr 1 ]apelin-13 (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (Fig. 6 ) were present at a sufficient level to generate suitable product ion spectra allowing experimentally acquired fragments to be matched against theoretical fragments from the peptide sequence. The relative mass accuracy of all potential metabolites were generated and the experimental values were all within 1 ppm of expected values, whilst the mass accuracy of the parent peptide had the highest value of 1.3 ppm. The beneficial effects of apelin in heart failure are well characterised. Plasma apelin levels have been suggested to increase in early stages 5 of heart failure but decrease in late stages of the disease [52] [53] [54] . In support of this, heart failure therapies such has cardiac resynchronisation therapy used to treat refractory chronic heart failure were shown to increase plasma apelin suggesting that increased apelin levels are associated with improved therapeutic benefit 54 . Apelin administration increased stroke volume and contractility in failing hearts 11 , thereby improving the performance of the failing heart. Similarly, neprilysin inhibitors have emerged as a pivotal therapeutic strategy for clinical management of heart failure due to the role of neprilysin in the degradation of vasoactive peptides including natriuretic peptides and bradykinin 55 . Indeed, neprilysin inhibitors such as sacubitril are used for clinical management of heart failure 56 . Our data may therefore suggest that an additional benefit of neprilysin inhibitors in heart failure is to reduce apelin inactivation resulting in beneficial vasodilation, increased contractility and cardiac output. Building on these findings, further studies could substitute the amino acids at the neprilysin cleavage sites in [Pyr 1 ]apelin-13 with unnatural amino acids to improve its resistance to degradation. Indeed, it was recently shown that infusion of neprilysin resistant apelin-17 in an established mice model of abdominal aortic aneurysm ameliorated the adverse aortic remodelling and aneurysm formation 27 . Such a strategy was also demonstrated to significantly increase the resistance of [Pyr 1 ]apelin-13 and apelin-17 to ACE2 activity 22, 23 , suggesting that this could potentially be a mechanism to improve plasma stability of apelin-based therapeutics for clinical indications. We have recently published on an another approach to stabilise apelin peptides in human blood using albumin domain (AlbudAb) antibody conjugated to an apelin analogue, MM202 and showed that this peptide was resistant to degradation yet retained biological activity at the human apelin receptor in vitro and in vivo 9 . Therefore, these strategies could in the near future result in the development of the first apelin-based therapeutics for treatment of human diseases. www.nature.com/scientificreports www.nature.com/scientificreports/ In conclusion, apelin peptides have protective roles in cardiovascular diseases, however, any potential therapeutic use is impaired by the poor plasma stability of the peptide. In this study, we have developed a highly sensitive method for detection and quantification of [Pyr1]apelin-13 in human plasma. For the first time in humans in vivo we have identified as the most abundant metabolite of [Pyr 1 ]apelin-13, the ACE2 cleavage product, [Pyr 1 ] apelin-13 (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) that we have previously demonstrated retains significant biological activity in addition to the putative neprilysin metabolites [Pyr 1 ]apelin-13 (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) and [Pyr 1 ]apelin-13 (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) . Combined inhibition of ACE2 and neprilysin may be a novel strategy to enhance endogenous apelin levels in conditions in which the peptide is downregulated. Additionally, these data will inform the design of more stable apelin peptides for therapeutic use. There are diverse reasons for the lack of PPE preparedness at primary care institutions. Clinic-based PCPs realize that PPE should be worn to protect themselves, other healthcare staff members, and patients during pandemics [12] . However, insufficient funds to purchase a large amount of PPE, and a lack of storage space, may lead to reluctance to maintain large supplies [12] . In Japan, primary care clinics are generally managed as small private practices, with limited space and small budgets. These clinics are likely to curtail the elements of preparedness that require finances and space. Most primary care providers in PCPs believe that governments are responsible for stockpiling and providing PPE during pandemics [12, 24] . Without explicit guidelines that designate who is responsible for providing PPE during pandemics, supplies of PPE are likely to be inadequate. This PPE supply shortage may lead to PCPs declining to see patients with influenza-like illness, to protect themselves and their staff, which makes the personal lives and families of medical staff the priority instead of the provision of care to the community. This premise is supported by the observation that 37.5% of the general practices in Canada closed their doors during the SARS outbreak [25] . Practical incentives (e.g., financial support) and/or strategies for the distribution of stockpiled supplies of PPE should be developed by the national health authority so that individual PCPs can respond effectively during pandemics. We found that sufficient supplies of N95 masks were not maintained by PCPs, but that adequate supplies of surgical masks were available. It is not known whether a surgical mask is as effective as an N95 mask in providing protection against influenza and other respiratory viruses. If surgical masks are sufficient, then inventories of N95 masks are not necessary. The size and nature of infectious influenza particles that are transmitted during coughing or sneezing are not well understood, and the efficacy of a surgical mask to prevent disease transmission is not known [26] . Theoretically, an N95 mask should be used for particles < 5 \u03bcm transmitted via aerosol, and the efficacy of an N95 mask for the prevention of transmission of influenza has been shown [27] . However, studies conducted in healthcare settings have not yet reached a definite conclusion regarding the use of different types of masks. During the 2009 pandemic influenza, an N95 mask was significantly associated with a lower risk of pandemic (H1N1) 2009 virus infection, compared with a surgical mask [28] . In contrast, results of a randomized trial suggested that a surgical mask does not seem to be inferior to a N95 mask for the protection of health care workers against seasonal influenza viruses [28] . The Japanese preparedness plan and guidelines do not recommend a specific type of mask, and published recommendations regarding the use of specific types of masks are not consistent [29] . The cost of N95 masks is also relevant. Phin et al. (2009) showed that N95 masks can have significant financial and logistic implications because they cost 30 times more than surgical masks and should be replaced every 3 years [30] . Considering the current lack of evidence for the superiority of N95 masks, the cost of purchasing large quantities for stockpiling, and the general lack of storage space, it seems unrealistic to prepare for pandemics with N95 masks. Overall, PPE is the most appropriate choice for limiting disease transmission, but further studies of which particular PPE is most effective are clearly necessary. Our findings revealed that a BCP was not implemented by most clinic-or hospital-based PCPs. Institutions that reviewed the national pandemic preparedness plan and guidelines were more likely to have a BCP. A BCP is a contingency plan for responding to the surge in patient numbers during a pandemic. A BCP provides guidance on how to maintain essential functions and supplies when there are limited human resources. A BCP also identifies essential practice functions, staffing contingencies, flexible working hours and family care plans for staff members, criteria for clinic closure, ancillary staff recruiting and training, record keeping to ensure accountability for actions and inactions, and the use of antiviral medications. A BCP also includes plans for simulation exercises that complement training and that evaluate and refine local practice plans and leadership delegation [16] . Hospital BCP and clinic BCP are different, because the content of BCPs should depend on the institutional setting, size of practice, and role in the community. For instance, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) [31] , the American Academy of Family Physicians [32] , and the Canadian Medical Association [33] issued checklists of BCP for clinics, which are relatively concise; conversely, the CDC's checklist of BCP for hospitals is longer and more complicated [34]. We thank all the patients who participated in this study. We also thank the Director Boards and all the doctors, nurses and technicians of the infectious diseases departments, emergency departments, and clinical laboratories of the Quang Nam Central General Hospital, Quang Nam Northern Mountainous Region General Hospital, Quang Nam Regional General Hospital and Quang Nam Provincial General Hospital, Quang Nam province, Vietnam, for their support with the sample collection. We thank Dr Tran Ngoc Hunga former vice head of the Infectious Diseases Department of the Quang Nam Provincial General Hospitalfor his valuable sampling advice. We thank Mrs Nguyen Thi Phuonga member of the staff at the General Planning Department of the Quang Nam Central General Hospitalfor her administrative support of the sampling procedures. We especially thank Dr Dinh Dao -Directorand Dr Than Trong Longthe former Directorof the Quang Nam Central General Hospital for their support in organizing the sampling. We also especially thank Mr Pham Viet Tich -Director of the Quang Nam Department of Science and Technologyfor his support in seeking funding.We thank Mrs Sophie Edouard and the Biomol staff at the IHU-M\u00e9diterran\u00e9e Infection, Marseille, France, for their support with the serological tests and their valuable advice regarding the interpretation of the serological results. We especially thank Professor R\u00e9mi Charrel and his staffs for providing the primers and positive controls of arboviruses used in the qRT-PCR analysis. Primary species at each site. Species other than the primary species may have been sampled. Ck = Chicken, Dk = Duck, Pn = Pigeon, Pt = Pet birds.{Consists of fecal collections and samples from water troughs, standing water, and fecal digesters. Sample size is listed in parentheses.{Reported as % positive for either a cloacal or oropharyngeal swab. Number of hosts that were tested is listed in parentheses.1 Total number of samples tested irrespective of sample type. Sample size is listed in parentheses.a-dResults of sequential proportions tests on the sampling sites in Dhaka. Atleast 1 positive sample was required for to site to be included in the analysis. Significant differences were not found between values with the same letter (P.0.05), but values with different letters were found to be significantly different (P,0.05). Sites with equal prevalences were combined and compared to the remaining sites to confirm that differences in prevalence exist. The statistical results are only valid when examining values within a column. Lower letters indicate higher prevalence values. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0019311.t002. Type I IFN exhibits a strong antiviral effect, and hence several viruses have evolved to suppress the type I IFN production. HCV is a major cause of hepatocellular carcinoma and persistently infects hepatocytes over several decades without exclusion by the host immune system. A viral NS3-4A protease is required to cleave viral polypeptides and produce mature viral proteins; however, it is also important to suppress the host innate immune response. NS3-4A of HCV cleaves MAVS, which results in the release of MAVS from mitochondria (12) . Several reports have shown that released MAVS protein fails to trigger signaling to induce type I IFN production (9) . Accordingly, NS3-4A-mediated cleavage of MAVS abrogates RIG-I-mediated type I IFN production. NS3-4A protein also targets the Riplet protein. The RING finger domain is a catalytic domain of the Riplet protein, and viral NS3-4A protease cleaves the domain and destabilizes the protein (24) . NS1 protein of influenza A virus also has the ability to suppress type I IFN production (38) . Although several mechanisms have been postulated, Gack et al. reported that viral NS1 bound to TRIM25 and inhibited TRIM25-mediated polyubiquitination of RIG-I (39) . In further study, they reported that NS1 protein also targeted the Riplet protein and inhibited RIG-I polyubiquitination (40) . Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV) also interferes TRIM25 function (41) . The nucleocapsid protein of SARS-CoV physically interacted with TRIM25 and inhibited the binding of TRIM25 to RIG-I, resulting in the attenuation of RIG-I-signaling (41) . These data imply that viruses obtained the ability to suppress the ubiquitin ligases to escape innate immune responses. Conversely, these data indicate the importance of the two ubiquitin ligases, TRIM25 and Riplet, for the antiviral innate immune response. Sequential ubiquitination model for RIG-I. (A) The RIG-I proteins assemble along double-stranded RNA (dsRNA). The C-terminal domain (CTD) recognizes 5\u2032 triphosphate at the end of dsRNA. One CTD is required for the recognition of 5\u2032 triphosphate, whereas other CTDs of RIG-I molecules that assemble along dsRNA do not bind the end of dsRNA. (B) Riplet mediates K63-linked polyubiquitination of the linker region of RIG-I associated with dsRNA. In addition, Riplet can ubiquitinate the CTDs that assemble along dsRNA but not at the end of dsRNA. The linker region is responsible for the auto-suppression of the 2CARDs, and the CTD activation promotes the conformational change of the RIG-I protein. Riplet-mediated polyubiquitination of the C-terminal region (first ubiquitination) is expected to promote the release of the auto-suppression and/or the assembly of RIG-I along dsRNA via conformational change, leading to the binding of TRIM25 to the 2CARDs. Subsequently, cooperative oligomerization of TRIM25 with the 2CARDs induces the TRIM25-mediated polymerization of ubiquitin (second ubiquitination) required for stabilizing the 2CARD tetramer structure.One of the challenging aspects of diagnostic development is the lack of a perfect gold standard-if clinical intuition were perfect, there would be no need for additional diagnostic tests. Therefore, discordance between clinical adjudication and model classification may have arisen from errors in either classification scheme. Most of the discordant classifications involved the bacterial subgroup, for which there are several likely explanations. The seven individuals clinically identified as having bacterial infections had no supporting microbiology. Therefore, clinical adjudications were assigned based on symptoms, physical examination, laboratory testing, and radiography, all of which poorly discriminate bacterial and viral infections [43, 44] . Radiographic abnormalities, which were the most important factor for bacterial adjudication in this study, are frequently present in viral infections [45] [46] [47] [48] . Therefore, the subjects adjudicated as bacterial but classified as viral may have been true viral infections. There are other potential reasons for the observed discordance in bacterial vs. noninfectious diagnoses. The responses to bacterial and noninfectious inflammation have a large amount of biological overlap compared to the more specific interferon signaling in viral infections [16] . Consistent with this, we observed that the majority of discordance occurred between these two groups. In this scenario, a false negative bacterial infection diagnosis is of greatest concern due to the potentially missed opportunity to treat with antibiotics. Further iterations of the model will need to address rates of false negative bacterial diagnoses and the clinical cost of such errors. Model Gene Targets. Probes included in the customized RT-PCR platform, selected from prior microarray-based studies, and ordered alphabetically. (DOCX) 6. Koutsoubari I, Papaevangelou V, Konstantinou GN, Makrinioti H, Xepapadaki P, Kafetzis D, et al. Effect of clarithromycin on acute asthma exacerbations in children: an open randomized study. Pediatric allergy and immunology: official publication of the European Society of Pediatric Allergy and Immunology. 2012; 23(4):385-90. Epub 2012/03/22. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1399-3038.2012.01280.x PMID: 22433020. 7. Mandhane PJ, Paredes Zambrano de Silbernagel P, Aung YN, Williamson J, Lee BE, Spier S, et al. Treatment of preschool children presenting to the emergency department with wheeze with azithromycin: A placebo-controlled randomized trial. PloS one. 2017; 12(8):e0182411. Epub 2017/08/05. https:// doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0182411 PMID: 28771627; PubMed Central PMCID: PMCPMC5542589. 8. Lindenauer PK, Stefan MS, Feemster LC, Shieh MS, Carson SS, Au DH, et al. Use of Antibiotics Among Patients Hospitalized for Exacerbations of Asthma. JAMA internal medicine. 2016; 176 (9):1397-400. Epub 2016/07/28. https://doi.org/10.1001/jamainternmed.2016.4050 PubMed Central PMCID: PMCPMC5515377. 9. Vanderweil SG, Tsai CL, Pelletier AJ, Espinola JA, Sullivan AF, Blumenthal D, et al. Inappropriate use of antibiotics for acute asthma in United States emergency departments. Academic emergency medicine: official journal of the Society for Academic Emergency Medicine. 2008; 15(8):736-43. Epub 2008/ 07/17. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1553-2712.2008.00167.x PMID: 18627585. 10. Lucini V, Ciraci R, Dugnani S, Pannacci M, Pisati F, Caronno A, et al. Antibiotics counteract the worsening of airway remodelling induced by infections in asthma. International journal of antimicrobial agents. 2014; 43(5):442-50. Epub 2014/04/05. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijantimicag.2014.02.005 PMID: 24698123. 11. Johnston SL, Ferrero F, Garcia ML, Dutkowski R. Oral oseltamivir improves pulmonary function and reduces exacerbation frequency for influenza-infected children with asthma. The Pediatric infectious disease journal. 2005; 24(3):225-32. Epub 2005. PMID: 15750458. The first experimental confirmation of DENV's ability to block the IFN-\u03b1/\u03b2 response was provided by Diamond and Harris [38] , who demonstrated that a short incubation of cells with IFN-\u03b1/\u03b2 prior to infection was required to completely inhibit viral replication. Additionally, DENV-encoded proteins are directly implicated in IFN-\u03b1/\u03b2 antagonistic functions. The DENV-encoded proteins NS2A, NS4A and NS4B, expressed separately in human alveolar basal epithelial cells (A549), enhanced replication of IFN-\u03b1/\u03b2-sensitive viruses in the presence of IFN-\u03b1/\u03b2, and NS4B strongly inhibited IFN-\u03b1/\u03b2 stimulation of ISRE promoter [59] . Co-expression of NS2A, NS4A and NS4B completely ablated IFN-\u03b1/\u03b2 signaling, suggesting that these three proteins have a synergistic inhibitory effect on the JAK/STAT signaling pathway [59, 60]. Viruses often encode complex, redundant mechanisms to antagonize the antiviral response of the host. Many viruses circumvent the IFN-\u03b1/\u03b2 response by preventing the expression of IFN. Hepatitis C virus blocks IFN-\u03b1/\u03b2 production by cleaving the cytoplasmic domain of the RLR signaling adaptor molecule IPS-1. As a consequence, IPS-1 loses its essential association to the mitochondria, which precludes effective binding with RIG-I and MDA5 and thereby abolishes RLR-mediated induction of IFN expression [71, 72] . Although inhibition of IFN-\u03b1/\u03b2 expression by DENV proteins has not been observed, this possibility cannot be ruled out. The blocking of IFN-\u03b1/\u03b2 signaling, and not IFN-\u03b1/\u03b2 expression, is supported by the fact that DENV NS4B protein specifically blocks signaling through the JAK/STAT pathway [60] . However, the IFN response undergoes auto-amplification as an infection progresses, and inhibition of the IFN-\u03b1/\u03b2 signaling will in itself result in reduced IFN-\u03b1/\u03b2 production. For example, TLRs and RLRs expression is upregulated by IFN-\u03b1/\u03b2. Therefore inhibition of the JAK/STAT pathway renders the cell less responsive to viral infection, and in so doing it reduces the expression of IFN-\u03b1/\u03b2. Further investigation will more precisely elucidate the extent to which the IFN\u03b1/\u03b2 network is antagonized by DENV. On the other hand, Kunjin virus has been shown to regulate the expression of IFN-\u03b1/\u03b2. A single amino acid substitution in the NS2A protein of a Kunjin virus resulted in increased levels of IFN-\u03b1/\u03b2 expression both in vitro and in vivo and a corresponding decrease in virulence in mice [73] . However, the mechanism by which the NS2A protein of Kunjin virus controls the level of IFN-\u03b1/\u03b2 expression remains to be determined. Enteroviruses are considered the main viral candidates for causing type 1 diabetes in humans [15] . Seasonal incidence of type 1 diabetes has been reported subsequent to enterovirus infections since 1969 [16, 17] . Although the role of enteroviruses in type 1 diabetes has been investigated for more than 40 years, the etiological link is still enigmatic [18] . A higher frequency of enterovirus infections has been reported among siblings who develop type 1 diabetes as compared to nondiabetic controls [19] . Additionally, higher titers of enterovirus antibodies were found in pregnant mothers whose children later developed type 1 diabetes [19] . Furthermore, association between enteroviral infections and beta cell autoimmunity has been reported on several occasions. For example, in type 1 diabetes-genetically susceptible children, a seasonal detection of autoantibodies matched the seasonal occurrence of enteroviruses infections, suggesting the contribution of enteroviruses to autoimmune diabetes [20] . In another study, signs of enterovirus infections were detected in parallel with the first appearance of diabetes-associated autoantibodies [21] . Correspondingly, Elshebani et al. found that certain enterovirus strains that are isolated from type 1 diabetes patients affected the function of beta cells, and induced cell destruction in vitro [22] . Similarly, enteroviruses have been found in intestinal biopsies from diabetic patients, suggesting the possibility of an ongoing persistent enterovirus infection in the gut mucosa of type 1 diabetes patients [23] . Furthermore, a recent systematic review that analyzed 24 published papers documented a significant association between enteroviruses and autoimmunity/type 1 diabetes [24] . Coxsackie B virus (CVB) is the most prevalent enterovirus in pre-diabetic and diabetic patients [15] . Several studies have reported the presence of CVB RNA in the blood of type 1 diabetes patients [25] [26] [27] [28] . Juhela et al. found that T cell response to CVB4 (serotypes 4 in Coxsackievirus group B) is enhanced in children with type 1 diabetes, and this might be as a result of enterovirus-specific T cell being trapped in the pancreas [29] . In addition, a post-mortem examination of a deceased diabetic child revealed the death of beta cells and the presence of a lymphocytic infiltrate in the islets of Langerhans [30] . In further support of this finding, CVB4 was propagated in mouse pancreatic cells, and when those cells were inoculated into susceptible mice, they developed autoimmune diabetes [30] . Dotta et al. detected CVB4 in pancreatic tissue from three out of six patients with type 1 diabetes. In fact, the virus was able to infect beta cells originating from non-diabetic donors, leading to beta cell functional impairment and strong Natural Killer (NK) cells-mediated inflammation [31] . This observation could be attributed to the high expression of type-I interferon (IFN-1) in beta cells following CVB infection, which leads to rapid beta cell death [32] . Evidence of inflammation and direct cytolysis of beta cells has been shown to produce autoantigens that initiate autoimmunity in turn [15] . Importantly, age seems to play a significant role in the development of virus-induced diabetes. In this regard, infection with CVB4 has been shown to enhance type 1 diabetes in eight-week-old NOD mice but not in a younger age group, suggesting that CVB4 infection can contribute to diabetes progression, only if a threshold level of pre-existing autoreactive T cells were accumulated in the pancreatic islets [33] . Virus-induced inflammatory cytokines are also thought to play an important role in the induction of autoimmunity in a time-dependent manner. For example, expression of Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-\u03b1) in the pancreatic islets has been shown to enhance or abrogate autoimmune diabetes depending on the time of expression [34]. The molecular basis of autoimmunity in CVB4 infection is proposed to be a molecular mimicry [35] , where the 2C non-structural CVB protein has a shared sequence with the glutamic acid decarboxylase 65 enzyme (GAD65), which is predominantly expressed in pancreatic beta cells [36] . This result aligns with previous studies that have investigated the immunological cross-reactivity caused by sequence similarity between self-and non-self-antigens. Particularly GAD65 was found to play an important role in the pathogenesis of type I diabetes as a target autoantigen [37] , where the ensuing immune response to GAD65 has been detected before the onset of clinical diabetes [35] . In this regard, it is of note that T cells isolated from type 1 diabetes patients were shown to react with both GAD65 and 2C protein, however, other studies have demonstrated that healthy control groups can also have reactive T cells to GAD65 [38] . This immunological cross-reactivity may not provide the initiative event for triggering diabetes, but can act as an enhancer for disease development [15] . On the contrary, some studies have not found convincing evidence supporting the CVB-induced diabetes hypothesis [39] . Notably, Sarmineto et al. showed that although an enterovirus epidemic occurred in Cuban population between 2000 and 2001, diabetes rate in the population was not affected [18] . On the other hand, other studies have demonstrated that infection with CVB during the first year of life can have a protective effect against type 1 diabetes [29] . This protection was attributed to the developmental stage of the adaptive immune system where viral infections trigger specific immune responses, including activation of T regulatory (Treg) cells and induction of suppressors which collectively hinder autoimmunity [15] . Furthermore, CVB infection was found to be protective through enhancing Treg cells in individuals who are genetically susceptible to type 1 diabetes but not insulitis, therefore inhibiting islet-specific T cell autoimmunity [17] . However, it is yet to be determined how often CVB can induce autoimmunity, and what are the factors that contribute to beta cells destruction and diabetes development or protection [15]. Several studies have linked upper respiratory infections to transient increase in type-I IFN expression preceding autoimmunity/diabetes development [53] . Similarly, it was found that influenza virus stimulated IFN-\u03b1 production from plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDC), which is associated with Th1-mediated autoimmunity type 1 diabetes development [54] . Further, IAV infection induced significantly higher pDC-dependent IFN-\u03b1 expression in PBMCs obtained from diabetic patients compared to those from healthy controls [54] . This increase in IFN-\u03b1 expression was associated with increased numbers of pDCs, which in turn could contribute to the bystander activation of autoreactive T cells. More recently, it was reported that a highly functional CD8+ T cell response is elicited by alternative reading frame (ARF) epitopes encoded by NS1 mRNA of IAV, which might have important implications on IAV-induced autoimmunity [55]. In the last decade, a number of studies had associated influenza infection or vaccination to type 1 narcolepsy (T1N), a chronic sleep disorder associated with autoimmune destruction of hypocretin (HCRT) neurons in the hypothalamus. This disorder is linked to the HLA-DQB1*0602/DQA1*01:02 haplotype, T cell receptors (TCR) and other immune loci, suggesting the involvement of autoimmune response in the disease pathophysiology [56, 57] . However, the associated autoantigens are still not identified. Observational studied have reported an increase in T1N after the 2009 H1N1 pandemic [58] . A significantly increased risk of narcolepsy in adults and children was also linked to Pandemrix vaccination (influenza inactivated vaccine) [59, 60] . Interestingly, the use of Focetria vaccination (differently formulated inactivated influenza vaccine) was not associated with increased T1N risk [61] . Considering the difference in the adjuvants as well as the antigens of both vaccines, as Pandemrix is a split-influenza vaccine while Focetria is a subunit vaccine resulting in distinct antigen formulations, this highlights the significant contribution of viral antigen composition in the development of autoimmunity [62] . Molecular mimicry of IAV antigens has been strongly suggested in T1N, in which a similarity between H1N1 specific peptides and HCRT peptides was reported. In a very recent study, Luo et al. reported that sequences of T cell receptor (TCR) \u03b1 and \u03b2/complementarity-determining region (CDR) 3 were found in influenza HA nucleoprotein (NP) and HCRT tetramer-positive CD4+ T-cells, and also retrieved in INF-\u03b3-secreting CD4+ T-cells stimulated with Pandemrix [57] . Accordingly, cross-reactivity between HCRT autoantigen and specific influenza sequences might explain how influenza infection or vaccine trigger T1N autoimmunity. Not only that, these findings also suggested the possible involvement of antigen spreading and CD8+ T-cells killing of HCRT neurons leading to this disorder, which is a known mechanism reported in other IAV-induced autoimmune disorders as well, including diabetes [63] . Nonetheless, to confirm these observations, sequence analysis of more TCRs in autoimmune responses is required. Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection is suspected to have a central role in the pathogenesis of SADs [66] . In fact, high viral loads of EBV DNA were detected in the blood of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) patients [67, 68] . Furthermore, increased EBV viral mRNAs expression was reported in SLE patients [69] . Other reports linked SLE to EBV based on serological analysis. High titers of anti-early antigen (EA) IgG and IgA were found in SLE patients compared to healthy EBV carriers [65, 70] . Increased EBV viral load, high titers of EBV antibodies, and abnormal cell-mediated immunity to EBV have been also observed in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and Sj\u00f6gren's syndrome (SS) patients [65] . These findings bear immediate relevance for the abnormal cell-mediated regulation of EBV infection and frequent virus reactivation that has been observed in RA, SS, and SLE patients [65] . In contrast to the aforementioned studies, interestingly, some other reports have shown a protective association between herpesviruses infections and autoimmunity [3, 80, 81] . Serum antibodies to CMV, EBV were found to be lower in CD patients compared to healthy controls [81] . Jansen et al., found that anti-CMV, EBV, and or HSV-1 IgG levels were inversely correlated with transglutaminase type 2 antibody (TG2A) levels, suggesting a protective impact of these viruses in the pathogenesis of CD [82, 83] . The protective role of infections in autoimmunity supports the \"hygiene hypothesis\", which proposes that cleaner living environment leads to higher incidence of autoimmune disorders [80] . Lerner et al. found that higher CD incidences are correlated with less infectious environment [3] . Infections can abrogate autoimmunity disorders through several pathways including: post-translational modification of proteins (PTMP) form non-self to self, and therefore reducing their pathogenicity. For example, some microbial agents modify gluten and thus preventing intestine damage [3, 84] . Additionally, some infections are able to shift the immune response from Th1 to Th2, establishing an immunosuppressive state in Th1-derived immune diseases, such as CD [80] . In fact, this protective effect has also been observed in parasitic infections. In mouse model, it was reported that helminths modulate the immune system and generate a Th2 environment, which protects from autoimmune diseases or relieve symptoms of established autoimmune inflammation [85] . Similarly, it was found that MS patients who are infected with helminth parasites have less severe disease compared to uninfected patients [86] . Interestingly, the administration of anti-helminthic drugs increased MS-associated disease activity [87] . Currently, the use of live helminths to treat MS and other AIDs is under clinical evaluation [88] . Other than immune system modulation towards Th2, viral infections, including infections produced by CMV and EBV, can cause apoptosis of the immune cells, thus, attenuating the immune system response, and minimizing autoimmune disease progression [3] . Infections with multiple other viruses such as measles and mumps (Paramyxoviridae family), and rubella (Togaviridae family), have been linked to autoimmune disorders. Specifically, mumps and rubella infections were linked to the onset of type 1 diabetes [89] . Both viruses have the ability to infect and grow in beta cells [90, 91] . Further, both viruses result in CNS demyelination disease [64] . Viruses from the Flaviviridae family, such as Zika virus (ZIKV) and dengue virus (DENV) have been also associated to autoimmune disorders, including the recently reported ZIKV-induced Guillain-Barr\u00e9 syndrome and DENV-induced SLE and lupus nephritis [92, 93] . Human T-lymphotropic virus type 1 (HTLV-1) from the Retroviridae family has been associated with CNS autoimmunity, causing myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis [9] . Several recent studies aimed to explain the contribution of viral infections in CNS disorders. It was suggested that antiviral immune response cross-react with human NMDA receptors (2A subunit) [94] , which are responsible for excitatory glutamatergic transmission and are ion channel proteins found in nerve cells [95] . Pentapeptide similarity between the NMDA 2A receptor and viral proteins have been previously reported [96] . Using the same mechanism, other peptide commonalities with high degree of pentapeptide sharing were found between viral peptides and the human distal-less homeobox (DLX) transcription factors expressed during early fetal neurodevelopment (DLX1, DLX2, DLX5, and DLX6) [94] . Analysis of the brain-specific DLX self-antigens pentapeptide revealed matching with several viruses that have been related to neurological disorders including rubella and herpesviruses [94] . Collectively, these studies support the assumption that viral infections may relate to CNS disorders through autoimmune cross-reactions caused by molecular mimicry. There are also differences between different high prevalence regions. For example, in Nairobi, initially infections grow faster than other regions, irrespective of mobility (Fig 6) . When R B < 1, Nairobi converges very slowly to the disease-free equilibrium point compared to other regions (Fig 4) . This can be attributed to the fact that Nairobi is the most populated region in the country and highly connected to other regions (Fig 3b) . This result concurs with other studies, which associates high HIV infections with high human mobility in areas such as commercial farms and agricultural estates, mining areas, business centres and residential areas along busy roads [17] [18] [19] [20] [21] . It seems that more infectious individuals move from the most infected areas like Homa Bay, Siaya, Kisumu and other regions to Nairobi. Our study suggests some policies for controlling HIV. For example, policies should concentrate on educating people working in urban areas to take care in their sexual relations while in the urban area by promoting safe sex, encouraging condom use, reducing the number of sex partners or reducing risky behaviours like having sex with sex workers [12, 15, 61] . Potentially, if migrants could travel with their partners to urban areas [14] , then this would reduce the growth of the disease in rural areas. Proper education aimed at promoting behaviour changes and avoiding risk behaviours is crucial [61, 62] . In this study, we applied a host response signature to subjects presenting with asthma exacerbations and classified them by their underlying bacterial, viral, or noninfectious gene expression patterns. We compared this approach to clinical adjudication and procalcitonin. Our results indicated that peripheral blood gene expression profiles may provide additional clinically useful information for distinguishing the major classes of asthma exacerbation triggers. In the acute care setting, such a task is challenging since asthma exacerbations often have similar presentations and existing diagnostics fail to identify an underlying cause in most. As a result, antibiotics are overprescribed-nearly half of the individuals in this study were given antibiotics, despite only a handful being adjudicated as having bacterial infection. This impacts antibiotic stewardship efforts as well as patient outcomes; a recent study reported longer admissions and higher cost of stay in asthmatics treated with ant. 
